Blog post for NGINX and Schema (#1393)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2023-03-06-NGINX-Dashboards-with-Fluent-Bit.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Simple NGINX Dashboards with Fluent Bit and OpenSearch"
authors:
  - jdbright
  - lioperry
  - anurag_gup
  - armarble
date:   2023-03-06
categories:
  - technical-post
meta_keywords: opensearch simple schema, observability schema, opensearch opentelemetry, OpenSearch 2.6
meta_description: While users can send their logs to OpenSearch today, there are no set formats or schemas which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema and OpenSearch with Nginx as the first example.
---

Fluent Bit is a graduated sub-project under the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Fluentd project umbrella. Fluent Bit has hundreds of integrations to common tools such as Kafka, Syslog, Loki, and of course OpenSearch.

> While users can send their logs to OpenSearch today, there are no set formats or schemas, which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema, and OpenSearch with Nginx, as the first example.

Reviewer: This paragraph needs a little more information. There are no set formats or schemas for doing what? As the first example of what?

> ## Simple Schema

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Simple Schema for Observability
```

> While users can currently send their logs to OpenSearch, there are no set formats or schemas for the logs, which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog post, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema, and OpenSearch with NGINX as the example.

Reviewer: I'm still not following what we mean by "as the example." As the/an example of what? Can we revise for simplicity/clarity?

OpenSearch 2.6 introduced a standardization for conforming to a common and unified observability schema: Simple Schema for Observability. 

> Observability is a collection of plugins and applications that let you visualize data-driven events by using PPL / SQL / DQL to explore and query data stored in OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observability is a collection of plugins and applications that let you visualize data-driven events by using PPL/SQL/DQL to explore and query data stored in OpenSearch.
```

> Simple Schema for Observability is inspired by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/) and Elastic Container Service ([ECS](https://github.com/elastic/ecs)) logs categorization and field sets and OpenTelemetry metadata.

Reviewer: If we're referring to the AWS service, it has to be "Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)" on first mention. This sentence is still reading as confusing. Please revise for simplicity/clarity.

> Simple Schema for Observability is inspired by both [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/) and uses Amazon Elastic Container Service ([Amazon ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_cwe_events.html)) event logs and OpenTelemetry metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple Schema for Observability is inspired by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/) and uses Amazon Elastic Container Service ([Amazon ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs_cwe_events.html)) event logs and OpenTelemetry metadata.
```

> ## Connecting Simple Schema and Fluent Bit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connecting Simple Schema for Observability and Fluent Bit
```

> When raw logs are ingested by Fluent Bit they are automatically converted into MessagePack, a binary representation of JSON. Fluent Bit’s automatic conversion makes parsing and modifying messages in-flight simple and easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When raw logs are ingested by Fluent Bit, they are automatically converted into MessagePack, a binary representation of JSON. Fluent Bit’s automatic conversion makes parsing and modifying messages in-flight simpler.
```

Reviewer: Let's use something more specific/clear than "in-flight".

> When raw logs are ingested by Fluent Bit, they are automatically converted into MessagePack, a binary representation of JSON. Fluent Bit’s automatic conversion makes parsing and modifying messages in-transit simpler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When raw logs are ingested by Fluent Bit, they are automatically converted into MessagePack, a binary representation of JSON. Fluent Bit’s automatic conversion makes parsing and modifying messages in transit simpler.
```

> In addition, Fluent Bit comes with out of the box parsers for common applications such as Nginx, Apache Web Logs, Kubernetes, and more. These parsers give structure to a log file, though they do not have the depth that other log schemas and formats do. Thankfully, Fluent Bit can also handle more complex transformations along with with processors (also known as filters), or even Lua code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, Fluent Bit comes with out-of-the-box parsers for common applications such as NGINX, Apache Web Logs, Kubernetes, and more. These parsers give structure to a log file, though they do not have the depth that other log schemas and formats do. Thankfully, Fluent Bit can also handle more complex transformations along with processors (also known as filters) or even Lua code.
```

Reviewer: The last sentence here could be a bit clearer/simpler.

> In addition, Fluent Bit comes with out-of-the-box parsers for common applications such as NGINX, Apache Web Logs, Kubernetes, and more. These parsers give structure to a log file, though they do not have the depth that other log schemas and formats do. "Fluent Bit can do more advanced transformations with things called processors (or filters) and even with a programming language called Lua."

Reviewer: Why is the last sentence in quotes? Also, the last sentence does not connect to the text that comes before it. It needs to be evident why we're including the sentence where we're including it. What does the reader need to know and why?

Author: I did some shuffling around of the sentences here that I think ties it together and makes more sense. See what you think.

> [Lua filters](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/filters/lua) give users extreme flexibility with how they want to transform their data, including modifying, adding, enriching via API, calculating, or even redacting. To help us connect Fluent Bit and the new simple schema, we opted for a Lua script that you can paste into your config file to run on top of NGINX ingested logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Lua filters](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/filters/lua) give users extreme flexibility in how they transform their data, including modification, addition, enrichment via API, calculation, or even redaction. To connect Fluent Bit and the new Simple Schema for Observability, we opted for a Lua script that you can paste into your configuration file to run on top of NGINX-ingested logs.
```

> fluent-bit.conf example for VM or standalone deployments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is a fluent-bit.conf example for VM or standalone deployments:
```

Reviewer: Do we mean "The following is an example fluent-bit.conf [noun] for..."? Does VM stand for "virtual machine" here?

> The following is an example fluent-bit.conf for VMs (VM is an industry-standard abbreviation for virtual machine) or standalone deployments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example fluent-bit.conf for virtual machines (VMs) or standalone deployments:
```

Reviewer: Still need a noun after "fluent-bit.conf". File?

    call    cb_filter

[OUTPUT]
    format json
    name stdout
    match *
```

## Importing the dashboard in OpenSearch

> See the following tutorials:

Reviewer: This sentence needs more information. Why should the reader see the tutorials? What will the tutorials help them do?

Reviewer: @ariamarble It looks like this comment hasn't been addressed yet.

Author: yeah, seem to have missed it. got my change done.

> -	Preloaded data demo (use text in the [readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/samples/preloaded/README.md ))

Reviewer: Both of these bullet points need to be cleaned up and revised so that they plainly state what the demo is and what it can help the reader to do.

> -	To see example pre-loaded data, see the following demo. Use the text in the following [readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/samples/preloaded/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	For example preloaded data, see the following demo. Use the text in [this readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/samples/preloaded/README.md).
```

-	Live nginx->fluent-bit->opensearch demo (use text in the [readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/test/README.md))

> ## End result and next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Summary and next steps
```

> -	To see an example live NGINX->fluent-bit->OpenSearch workflow, see the following demo. Use the text in the following [readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/9267012051fabfc2a971493bddde60448bc48ecf/integrations/nginx/test/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	To view an example live NGINX > fluent-bit > OpenSearch workflow, see the following demo. Use the text in [this readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/9267012051fabfc2a971493bddde60448bc48ecf/integrations/nginx/test/README.md).
```

> - See the following [playground](https://observability.playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/96847220-5261-44d0-89b4-65f3a659f13a) that displays the pre-loaded NGINX demo based on fluent translated data ingested into the simple schema logs data-stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the following [playground](https://observability.playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/96847220-5261-44d0-89b4-65f3a659f13a) that displays the preloaded NGINX demo based on fluent translated data ingested into the simple schema logs data stream.
```

Reviewer: Do we mean OpenSearch Playground (capitalized)? This sentence needs some revision toward the end. I'm not following "based on fluent translated data ingested into the simple schema logs data-stream." There's got to be some missing punctuation and capitalization here.

> In this blog post, we provided an overview of OpenSearch’s new Simple Schema for Observability, shown how to take advantage of it using [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/), and modified and imported an NGINX dashboard contributed by [WorldTechIT](https://wtit.com/), to demonstrate a full agent to dashboard flow. To dive deeper and see how it all works for yourself, download the [docker compose file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/test/README.md) and leave us feedback in [Github Discussions](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/discussions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this blog post, we provided an overview of the new OpenSearch Simple Schema for Observability, showed how to take advantage of it using [Fluent Bit](https://fluentbit.io/), and modified and imported an NGINX dashboard contributed by [WorldTechIT](https://wtit.com/) to demonstrate a full agent-to-dashboard flow. To dive deeper and see how it all works for yourself, download the [Docker Compose file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/test/README.md) and leave us feedback in [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/discussions).
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Simple NGINX dashboards with Fluent Bit and OpenSearch"
authors:
  - jdbright
  - lioperry
  - anurag_gup
  - armarble
date:   2023-03-06
categories:
  - technical-post
meta_keywords: opensearch simple schema, observability schema, opensearch opentelemetry, OpenSearch 2.6
meta_description: While users can currently send their logs to OpenSearch, there are no set formats or schemas, which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog post, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema, and OpenSearch with NGINX as the first example.
---

Fluent Bit is a graduated sub-project under the Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) Fluentd project umbrella. Fluent Bit integrates with hundreds of common tools such as Kafka, Syslog, Loki, and, of course, OpenSearch.

> While users can currently send their logs to OpenSearch, there are no set formats or schemas for the logs, which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog post, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema, and OpenSearch with NGINX, as a new workflow that simplifies the sharing of dashboards and alerts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While users can currently send their logs to OpenSearch, there are no set formats or schemas for the logs, which can make sharing dashboards and alerts cumbersome. In this blog post, we talk about using Fluent Bit, a new simple schema, and OpenSearch with NGINX as a new workflow that simplifies the sharing of dashboards and alerts.
```

## Simple Schema for Observability

OpenSearch 2.6 introduced a standardization for conforming to a common and unified observability schema: Simple Schema for Observability. 

Observability is a collection of plugins and applications that let you visualize data-driven events by using PPL/SQL/DQL to explore and query data stored in OpenSearch. With the schema in place, Observability tools can ingest, automatically extract, and aggregate data and create custom dashboards, making it easier to understand the system at a higher level.

> The Simple Schema for Observability is based on the way that the Amazon Elastic Container Service ([Amazon ECS](https://github.com/elastic/ecs)) organizes its logs, and the information provided by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/), including metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simple Schema for Observability is based on the way that Amazon Elastic Container Service ([Amazon ECS](https://github.com/elastic/ecs)) organizes logs and on information provided by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/), including metadata.
```

Reviewer: Confirm that my changes retain the intended meaning.

Author: Yes I think so

> Simple Schema for Observability is based on the way that Amazon Elastic Container Service ([Amazon ECS](https://github.com/elastic/ecs)) organizes logs and on information provided by [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/), including metadata.

Reviewer 2: @ariamarble @brijos - is that the correct URL for the Amazon ECS??

Author: hey Kris, as discussed, I forgot to update this. I'll fix real quick

Author: @krisfreedain done

## Connecting Simple Schema for Observability and Fluent Bit

When raw logs are ingested by Fluent Bit, they are automatically converted into MessagePack, a binary representation of JSON. Fluent Bit’s automatic conversion makes parsing and modifying messages in transit simpler.

In addition, Fluent Bit comes with out-of-the-box parsers for common applications such as NGINX, Apache Web Logs, Kubernetes, and more. These parsers give structure to a log file, though they do not have the depth that other log schemas and formats do.

> Fluent Bit can do more advanced transformations with things called processors (or filters), and even with a programming language called Lua.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fluent Bit can perform more advanced transformations by using a filter written with a programming language called Lua.
```

Reviewer: I think this is probably what we mean, based on https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/filters/lua, but please confirm that my change retains the intended meaning.

Author: yes, the meaning is retained and this flows a lot better. thanks!

[Lua filters](https://docs.fluentbit.io/manual/pipeline/filters/lua) give users extreme flexibility in how they transform their data, including modification, addition, enrichment via API, calculation, or even redaction. To connect Fluent Bit and the new Simple Schema for Observability, we opted for a Lua script that you can paste into your configuration file to run on top of NGINX-ingested logs.

> The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` file for VMs (VM is an industry-standard abbreviation for virtual machine) or standalone deployments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example `fluent-bit.conf` file for virtual machines (VMs) or standalone deployments:
```

    call    cb_filter

[OUTPUT]
    format json
    name stdout
    match *
```

## Importing the dashboard in OpenSearch

> For examples and demos of NGINX dashboard and Fluent bit, see the following tutorials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For demos of NGINX dashboard and Fluent Bit, see the following tutorials:
```

Reviewer: Shouldn't this sentence relate to the heading? Are what follows tutorials or demos? Please rewrite this sentence to clarify what we are providing and to tell the reader what they can learn/accomplish by using the resources we provide in the list.

> -	For example preloaded data, see the following demo. Use the text in [this readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/e18cf354fd7720a6d5df6a6de5d53e51a9d43127/integrations/nginx/samples/preloaded/README.md).

Reviewer: These list items all point the reader to "the following demo," but where is the following demo?

> -	To view an example live NGINX > fluent-bit > OpenSearch workflow, see the following demo. Use the text in [this readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/9267012051fabfc2a971493bddde60448bc48ecf/integrations/nginx/test/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	To view an example live NGINX > Fluent Bit > OpenSearch workflow, see the following demo. Use the text in [this readme file](https://github.com/opensearch-project/observability/blob/9267012051fabfc2a971493bddde60448bc48ecf/integrations/nginx/test/README.md).
```

> - See the following OpenSearch [Playground](https://observability.playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/96847220-5261-44d0-89b4-65f3a659f13a) demo that uses a preloaded NGINX > fluent-bit > OpenSearch simple schema log data stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The following OpenSearch [Playground](https://observability.playground.opensearch.org/app/dashboards#/view/96847220-5261-44d0-89b4-65f3a659f13a) demo uses a preloaded NGINX > Fluent Bit > OpenSearch Simple Schema log data stream.
```
